he's one of the most knowledgeable and
tenacious researchers and writers on the
political political assassinations of
the 1960s he's the author of 1992's
destiny betrayed which details the New
Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison's
investigation and the trial of Clay Shaw
which was greatly expanded for a revised
edition issued in 2012 also reclaiming
parkland published in 2013 but reissued
and expanded in 2016
he's also the co-author and editor of
the assassinations probe magazine on JFK
Martin Luther King jr. robert Francis
Kennedy and Malcolm X he co-edited the
acclaimed probe magazine from 1993 till
2000 and was a guest commentator on the
anniversary issue of the film JFK
re-released by Warner Brothers in 2013
his website Kennedys and king.com is one
of the best and most reliable online
resources for students and scholars of
American political assassinations of the
60s please welcome Jim dia Ginny oh okay
for doing this these things are never
easy to put together all right and I'd
like to be also gracious about sharing
the program with two great guys like
Bill Davey and John Newman who I've both
known for about 25 years and I've worked
with them for quite about that long time
also and they're there books in my
opinion would rank in any top 15 listing
are the best of the JMT library
considering there's a thousand books in
that library that's that's saying
something I want to introduce what I'm
going to talk about tonight by stating
that my last book reclaiming parkland
largely doubt with the state of the
evidence as it was in 2013
in the GfK case i what we call it in the
trade is something called a micro study
as one reviewers said it was really a
kind of updating the Sylvia Mars classic
book accessories after the fact which I
thought was a very kind compliment
indeed after publishing that book I came
to the conclusion after months on end of
study of the of all the detailed
evidence like the bullet shells ce3 990
the medical evidence etc that there
really was no case against Oswald today
that Oswald was not the victim of a
miscarriage of justice the simple
problem was that there was no justice at
all you had a rope prosecution led by
the FBI and the Warren Commission was
essentially a kangaroo court
but once that evidence presented was
minutely examined the case against
Oswald simply did not exist they were
allowed to get away with this because of
course Oswald had no legal defense and
there were no legal restrictions to
protect his rights all right now and in
fact after going through all this I have
no problem today saying that to say
Oswald was guilty is the legal and moral
equivalent of being a Holocaust denier
so after I disposed of that I began to
concentrate more on you know why was
Kennedy assassinated and I began to look
more and more at Kennedy's foreign
policy and the more I looked the more I
began to search outside of the JFK
Library of books simply because if you
if you stay aligned with that particular
lexicon you're probably going to get
like 90% Cuba and Vietnam as if this was
all Kennedy did for three years
and I found out that really was not the
case you know not not not by a long shot
and I also discovered something else as
much as I liked him Douglas his book but
Jeff can the unspeakable and I would
recommend that book to anybody who
hasn't read it I disagreed with the seal
slogan that was used to sell the book
which is something like a cold warrior
turns meaning that after 1962 and the
Missile Crisis that JFK stopped being a
cold warrior and tried to work with
Khrushchev and Castro for a date time
and the way I looked at this and then
with discoveries I was making is that
Kennedy's foreign policy was pretty much
sad once they entered the White House
all right
there's three events create three key
events that we have to question in order
to understand who Kennedy was once the
entered the White House and those are
number one why did Kennedy not send in
the Navy to bail out the Bay of Pigs
invasion that have been easy enough
Harley Burke the Admiral was there
trying to get him to do that the first
night of the invasion why in the fall of
1961 - Kennedy not send combat troops
into South Vietnam and by the way I have
to say in reading Gordon Goldstein's
book a lessons in disaster which is a
biography of McGeorge Bundy that
culminating debate in November of 1961
was preceded by eight previous requests
for JFK to send troops into Vietnam so
this is nine times in that one year that
Kennedy who was determined to turn down
sending the military into Vietnam and
the third question is why did Kennedy
not bomb to missile silos during the
Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 again
almost everybody in the room was asking
to take some kind of military action and
by the end of the 13 days even McNamara
who looked proposed
cade in the first place was leading in
that direction but Kennedy didn't do it
you know he stuck with his back channel
between RFK okay and the the Russian
ambassador in Washington all right so my
question is why did those I mean all
these books mention it but nobody tries
to explain why he did those things and
if Kennedy was really a cold war he
would have done all three of those
things or at least two out of the three
for instance we know that LBJ wanted to
send troops into Vietnam in 1961 and in
fact we have him on tape in 1964 telling
McNamara how frustrated he was watching
madam Erin Kennedy arranges withdrawal
plan we know that Nixon would have sent
in the Navy at the Bay of Pigs because
that's what he told Kennedy to do when
Kennedy called him he does a second or
third night of the crisis he asked him
what should I do in Kennan and Nixon
said declare a beachhead and send in the
Navy but he didn't do that all right
he was willing to accept defeat in April
of 1961 at the Bay of Pigs and he was
willing to withdraw leading to an
inevitable defeat in Vietnam
so the question is why all right and so
I began to study this phenomenon and I
began to consult books outside the
Kennedy assassination lexicon and I
discovered that the key to understanding
this is a guy who was in no book up
until Jim Douglas his book his name's
not mention anywhere that I could find
and his name is a guy named Edmund gully
on gully and the works in the State
Department when Kennedy was a
congressman and that's when they first
met
Kennedy needed some advice on a speech
so he went over the State Department and
gully and gave him a consultation in
1951 go in because he spoke fluent
French had been transferred to South
Vietnam in that same year Kennedy was
preparing to run against Henry Cabot
Lodge
for the senatorial seat from his home
state of Massachusetts so he flies into
Saigon because he wants to become more
well-versed on foreign policy which is a
lot of what son who spent a lot of their
time on and he decides to ditch the
French emissaries that have been sent to
meet him at the airport
and he starts knocking on doors of
people who have good reputations in the
media and there were a couple back down
and and in the State Department all
right and one of the guys he meets with
is Edmond going up so they have dinner
on a rooftop restaurant in Saigon and
Kennedy asset flat-out will alive with
the French in this thing
we're actually bankrolling this effort
how the French gonna win and galleon
says something like there's no way in
Haiti's that France is gonna win this
war and Kennedy of course asked him well
how come and he goes it's rather simple
ho chi minh has fired up the general
population to a point that you've got
tens of thousands of these young viet
men who would rather die then go back
under the yoke of colonialism
Frias will never win a long drawn-out
prolonged bloody war of attrition
because the homefront simply will not
accept it and that's how it's going to
end well to say that that conversation
had a rather deep impact on JFK is is a
very large understatement when he got
back to Massachusetts he began writing
letters making speeches and doing radio
addresses criticizing both the
Republican foreign policy establishment
and the Democratic foreign policy
establishment and most of all the State
Department for not understanding the
real plight of colonized people in the
third world in his new way of thinking
this was not a battle between communism
and capital
but it was one between independence and
colonialism and colonialism according to
Kennedy was going to lose now this
manifests itself on a national level in
1954 during Operation vulture vulture
was John Foster Dulles who was a
Secretary of State at that time it was
his plan to bail out the doomed French
effort in Vietnam this was a huge air
Armada of about 210 planes
three of them were carrying atomic bombs
and this was gonna bail out the French
effort at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu
well Nixon who's the vice president at
that time is like the lie is on between
Congress and the White House on this
whole issue and so Kennedy gets wind of
this of what's going to happen and he
begins to rail against Dulles and
Eisenhower was wanting him to come down
here or explain to us how nuclear
weapons are gonna win a guerrilla war
and then he added no amount of weaponry
could defeat an enemy which was
everywhere in nowhere and had the
support of the people and by the way
that's a very important passage there
because one of the things historians are
supposed to do is find origins and
patterns in a man's foreign policy and
that phrase that he said about being
everywhere in nowhere and having the
support that's a very argument he's
going to use in 1961 when everybody
wanted to commit troops to Vietnam and
nobody had an answer to it then all
right now actually I call that Kennedy's
first defining moment his first face-off
against Doug the Dulles brothers Nixon
and Eisenhower three years later there's
another one except it's much more public
the second one is in 1957 when Kennedy
takes the floor of the Senate and he
begins to attack
very specifically Dulles Nixon and
Eisenhower again this time it's over
their continued alliance with French
colonialism except this time it's off to
north coast of Africa in Algeria where
France is now involved in another civil
war to maintain the French colony of
Algeria 500,000 troops Duvall's into a
war of horrible atrocities all right
Kennedy attacked the White House for a
lying itself again with the hopeless
struggle of a European country to
maintain an overseas Empire in the third
world and he predicted that this would
turn out just like what happened three
years previous and Vietnam with another
French defeat what we needed to do he
said was to convince Paris negotiate in
order not to destroy the country of
France in a futile war against brother
and his sister's son and et cetera you
know over this horrible dispute in
Algeria but D as important if not more
important we had to begin to free the
colonized nations of Africa now that was
the second defining moment and what was
surprising about this - this speech by
the way I was saying that speech is very
much worth reading even today it's a
very incredible speech for a young guy
to be making on the floor the Senate
considering the the makeup of the Senate
and the White House at that time this
time Kennedy was attacked not just by
Nixon and John Foster Dulles but by
people in his own party like Dean
Acheson and Adlai Stevenson you know
there were 162 very by the way it's a
very controversial speech it actually
made headlines in a lot of newspapers
there were 163 editorial comments over
two-thirds of them were negative all
right Kennedy really thought that he
made a mistake here and he called up his
father and asked him what he thought and
his father's
she haven't made a mistake you watch
what's gonna happen this situation in
Algeria is gonna get even worse and in
two years everybody will realize that
you were right
and by the way that's exactly what
happened all right Eric severide made an
editorial comment at CBS TV in 1959
saying what John Kennedy looks like a
prophet these days doesn't he yeah but
but that how gee Ria's speech was
actually something else because it made
him a hero to the colonized people of
Africa he now became a kind of
unofficial ambassador to visiting
African dignitaries and this that appeal
began to spread the other third world
areas and so Kennedy now became a great
admirer of the chairman of the UN
DAG hammarskjld who wanted the United
Nations to be a kind of international
forum that would give voice to the
powerless call you know nations coming
out of colonialism and then provide a
left turn to express themselves and they
began to make a secret alliance over the
issues of Indonesia and Africa by 1960
Kennedy is very conscious that he's on
the edge with his foreign policy so on
the eve of the 1960 convention he told
one of the advisers here is Wolford we
have to win this thing because if
Johnson wins for Symington wins it's
just going to be more John Foster Dulles
all over again and by the way I have to
say that with what LBJ did once Kennedy
took over from 64 to 68 I think Kennedy
was absolutely right about that
once Kennedy's in office he immediately
begins to alter the Dulles brothers
policies for example in the Congo
where he supported hammers calls policy
to stop the country from being
partitioned or recolonized by Belgium
and he again began to work with hammers
called reversing American policy in
Indonesia the Dulles brothers had tried
to overthrow
in 1958 and 1959 the Nationals leader of
Indonesia and Kennedy decided that that
was going to be reversed that he was
going to support sukarno both
politically and economically now it's
really remarkable about just those two
instances those alterations of the
Dulles brothers foreign policy is this
that Kennedy continued those two
policies after Hamlisch called was
murdered in the fall of 1961 and by the
way I have no problem using the word
murdered because all you have to do is
read susan williams book who killed dag
hammarskjld
and you'll see that that was not an
accident that airplane crash was not an
accident all right in other words with
hammers called dead Kennedy was carrying
this burden by himself you know and in
fact he had to go to New York to
convince the United Nations after Hamish
Boggs death not to give up their mission
in Congo all right he actually did that
twice all right and then he may plant a
state visit to Indonesia in the summer
of 1964 which Sukarno was very much
looking forward to but I could mention
other places where this occurs but when
Kennedy comes in he reverses the Dulles
Eisenhower foreign policy for example
that he wanted to negotiate a settlement
in Laos very important and again very
overlooked is that in the Middle East
the Dulles brothers had isolated Nasser
and we're beginning to favor Saudi
Arabia yes sir well ahead oh boy you do
yes
Nasser was ahead of you the president of
Egypt and Kennedy reversed that also he
began to favor Nasser and isolating
Saudi Arabia now the reason he did that
is because he thought because Nasser was
a socialist and a secularist that he
could begin to Malda foreign policy in
the Middle East
away from the fundamentalism and the
monarchy of places like Saudi Arabia and
Iran and by the way
I have to say he even mentioned that
issue in 1957 because there was a big
Muslim population in Algeria he refused
to meet with David Rockefeller because
he did not want to initiate a coup in
Brazil which is what Rockefeller wanted
to meet him about and he moved to
isolate the military regime that had
opposed the Dominican Republican
president Juan Bosch right now every one
of those policies without exception
began to change at a slow rate and then
at a rapid rate under the pressure of
Johnson and the CIA in a period of about
18 months after Kennedy is assassinated
in each case the end result was a
calamity for the people living in those
areas a very good example being the CIA
sponsored coup in Indonesia that took
place in 1965 and which killed well over
500,000 citizens and led to the looting
of the nation by Suharto and his
corporate cronies see what Kennedy
wanted to do have a course there and he
was actually arranging deals was force
Accardo was to nationalize the
industries on a very good split the
majority of the profits going to
Indonesia all right and Sakana was going
to use that to start doing things like
building hospitals and an infrastructure
and schools etc he wanted those benefits
of those natural resources to go to the
people now let me conclude with what I
think is a very important aspect of this
whole Dulles versus Kennedy foreign
policy dispute as most people understand
today Kennedy was never going to commit
to military in the Vietnam and in fact
he was withdrawing the advisory force
from that area at the time of his
assassination the assassination record
review boards were
some really important documents on this
in 1997 and that in addition to several
books including John's book JFK in
Vietnam for me sealed a deal on that
issue within a month of Kennedy's
assassination I think on December the
20th 1963 the former president Harry
Truman published to call him in The
Washington Post in which he is sealed
how the CIA had strayed so far from the
mission he had envisioned for them when
he was putting that agency together to
the point where he really kind of didn't
recognize what it had become from his
notes it's clear that Truman began
writing that column eight days after
Kennedy's death in the spring of 1964
while he was sitting on the Warren
Commission Allen Dulles visited Truman
at his home in Missouri this was not a
social visit he was there for one reason
he wanted Truman to retract the column
that attempt by Dulles fill Truman never
did retract what he wrote and in fact
about a year later and Look magazine he
repeated those same thoughts but a very
curious of change occurred as Dulles was
leaving as he got to duck to the door to
join his waiting escorts he turned to
Truman and said words to the effect you
know Kenny denied those stories about
how the CIA was clashing with him in
Vietnam which is a really startling
thing to say because Dulles visit was
supposed to be about humans article and
Truman never mentioned Kennedy or
Vietnam in the article all right
further the two newspaper pieces that
Dulles is referring to
are very likely one by Arthur crock and
Richard Starnes published in October of
1963 they both discussed the CIA's
growing influence over foreign policy
and they both conclude that if there was
ever an overthrow of the US government
on like seven days in May the novel that
had been made into a film at that time
it would be sponsored by the agency and
not the Pentagon again
Truman never went that far in his
article the whole angle this whole angle
was imputed to him and initiated by
Allen Dulles I think it's pretty clear
from that conversation that Dulles made
the visit because he thought human wrote
the column because the former president
believed CIA had a role in killing
Kennedy over the Vietnam issue what
makes this even more remarkable are
these two things number one at that time
in the spring of 1964
nobody had connected those dots that is
the CIA Kennedy Vietnam and Kennedy's
assassination no.1 the first time is
going to be done is four years later by
Jim Garrison number true Sherman had
already said to the press in 1961 that
hammers cult had been murdered over his
Congo policy and Dulles was aware of
that in my opinion he saw what had
happened with hammers gold and he did
not want Truman to get more explicit in
the Kennedy case so in the language of
prosecutors specifically Vincent de
Leite Vincent Bugliosi he would say
something like this if he had been on
our side what Dulles was doing here was
showing something called consciousness
of guilt while he was sitting on the one
Commission
which is one more reason that the
Commission is really a joke after four
years of study 2013 to 2017 I've
concluded that the cover-up about
Kennedy's foreign policy and how
reformist it was has been more
deliberate more strenuous more
systematic than the cover-up about the
circumstances of his death the reason
being that it gives a clear and
understandable motive for the power
elite to hatch a plot against him
there were literally tens of billions of
dollars on the table in the third world
okay
especially Indonesia okay and that's the
kind of money that these people commit
very serious crimes about alright this
is why at the time of his death people
like Nasser in Egypt fell into a
month-long depression right any or
Kennedy's funeral to be shown four times
on national television it's why Sukarno
openly wept and asked quote why did they
kill Kennedy all right it's Mike warming
a crewman of the Ghana when the American
ambassador gained the copy the warming
port returned it to him pointed out the
name of Allen Dulles on the front piece
and said one word whitewash the people
about to be victimized understood what
had happened because of our lousy media
in the United States is taking the
American public quite a bit longer to
understand okay thank you I'll conclude
with that James can I ask you one
question sure you mentioning Dulles
quite a bit right what do you think
killed who do you think is behind this
whole thing well I gave David chaplets a
book a very good review the devil's
chessboard alright and I think he makes
a pretty good case that
dollars if I had to say you to
categorize it
I think Dulles was the outside guys
panting James Angleton was the inside
guy all right show them the assignment
was given to Angleton I think angle
symbols the inside guy he was a guy
working you know in the what we called
it what they would call the
infrastructure I think Dulles was the
outside guy arranging it you know with
what the people he knew how to back them
but Dulles was fun Dulles was what
Dulles was fired by that stage by John
Kennedy
yeah he was fired but if you read topics
book she was only he was only fired
you know symbolically because he kept on
having meetings over at his townhouse in
Georgetown and he how she wrote about
those meetings you know in his diary and
anybody can read who is meeting with
people like angleton people that does
Fitzgerald etc and then on the day of
the assassination he ends up at the farm
yes you know which was the CIA
headquarters is that camporee camp
Perry's Ionia what Camp Perry Virginia
yes
secondary command post of the CIA right
okay you know so you know so he was
figuratively separated from the CIA
but as Talbot says in his book he was
really more like leading you know on a
kind of you know in country koonta
against Kennedy okay James thank you
very much